hey everyone my name is wade patterson
welcome to my youtube channel this is
the first time landing on this channel
consider subscribing it would mean a lot
i'm passionate about not only
toastmasters but communication impactful
communication making everyone a better
communicator and in this video i'm
talking about one of the toughest parts
of a toastmasters meeting and that is
answering a table topics question for
those who don't know what table topics
is you have a table topics master who
randomly picks out
toastmasters in a meeting and asks them
a question it's something that they
can't prepare for yet they need to stand
up and respond to that question for one
to two minutes and it is not easy
because of what i just said you can't
prepare for it you have no idea what
they're going to ask you
yet everyone is expecting you to deliver
an answer i love some of the
similarities in toastmasters of why you
do the training and how it complements
real life and this use of table topics
is similar to if you give a speech
in public and there are questions
afterward that is kind of the similar
situation people are going to ask you
questions and you don't know what
they're going to ask it probably is
going to be about your speech in general
however you can't be prepared for those
specifics
table topics helps you build that skill
set so that you can take those on the
fly questions and answer them with
confidence while you don't know
specifically what you're going to be
asked there's a couple of tips that i
have which will help you prepare so that
you can hopefully be more confident or
have a few more tools that you can lean
on for answering these table topics
questions most meetings have a theme and
it's important to pay attention to what
the theme is usually it's determined
earlier in the week prior to the meeting
because if you know what the theme is
for the meeting
you can
keep that in mind because the table
topics master is probably also looking
at that theme and building questions
around it
as an example if the theme is summer
vacations
it would probably be a good idea for you
to think up some stories that you have
from summer vacations maybe what's the
most
enjoyable place you ever went for a
summer vacation what was a bad
experience you once had on a summer
vacation by thinking up some of these
stories there is a good chance there
will be a question that is loosely
related to vacations or summer or
traveling or something along those lines
and even if the question isn't
specifically related to the story you
were thinking of there's a good chance
you can answer that question but then
thread in somewhat seamlessly your story
as well to help give it a little bit
more substance in your answer if you're
really freezing so you've been asked a
question and you have no idea how you're
going to respond
one of the things you can do to buy
yourself a few more seconds because
seconds matter in this type of situation
your brain's working overload to try to
think of what to talk about
you can ask the table topics master to
repeat the question or
you can respond by repeating the
question for example if i was asked wade
what is one place you really wanted to
travel that you've never been to yet i
could stand up and if my brain's still
working trying to think of an answer to
this
i could say all the formalities thank
you mr table topics master or madame
table topics master
fellow toastmasters welcome guests if
there's any guests
a place i have not traveled to yet that
i would really love to travel to
is
that just bought me about five more
seconds of thinking time where
probably in that time i've started to
think of a couple more ideas of places
that i would like to travel to
this is a subtle strategy but it really
helps out remember that the goal of
table topics isn't to have the most
profound amazing answer
it's to reach that green light what do i
mean by green light well in toastmasters
table topic's answer should be between
one and two minutes and the timer has
timing lights and the green light goes
on at one minute the yellow or amber
light goes on it one minute 30 seconds
and the red light goes on at two minutes
you want to hit that green light to at
least be one minute that is the goal of
table topics to get to that minimum
because it's very difficult as a new
club member to do that with that in mind
it is better
to
speak even if you're not directly
answering the question the whole point
of this is to be standing up and talking
for that amount of time not giving a
quick answer and sitting down right away
another way you can do this is if you're
asked a question and you don't know the
answer you can sort of transition it's
almost like a little bit of pr tactics
here in terms of shaping how you want to
answer it keeping the summer vacation
idea or theme if i have a story about a
great summer vacation but i don't have
any stories about a poor summer vacation
and i'm asked wait what's the worst
summer vacation you've ever been on my
answer can be
i consider myself very fortunate i've
been on so many amazing summer vacations
i've actually never been on a poor
vacation but i want to tell you
about the best summer vacation i've been
on because i'm a glass half full person
and then i can transition and tell my
story so even the ques though the
question was what is the worst summer
vacation you've been on i took that and
i transferred it and i'm still able to
speak for that one to two minutes and
get through the table topic section i
hope these tips were helpful i actually
did a video on table topics tips a while
ago like a year and a half ago but i
thought it was an important subject to
revisit because table topics is one of
the most challenging things about
toastmasters one of the last tips i'll
leave you with
if you sign up for a role that you can
prepare for such as humorist said or
joke master such as grammarian such as
aw counter
it slightly reduces your odds that
you'll also be asked a table topics
question
so if you're a brand new member maybe
start signing up for some of those roles
and then you don't have to worry about
the likelihood that you're going to be
picked for table topics but it could
still happen and then you got to take on
both but you're going to do great thanks
everyone for watching this video once
again please subscribe if it brought you
any value at all and i hope you have an
amazing day